# 2896. Apply Operations to Make Two Strings Equal

It's easy to convert the information we have into an array of indexes with each one indicating the position of bit we have to flip *eventually*.

e.g.
```
idx:  0.    2.    4     6. 7.       10
s1 = [1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0]
s2 = [0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1]
```

```
idx_arr = [0, 2, 4, 6, 7, 10]
```


Now consider the operation we can do (forget the cost for now): flip any two bits

That means only when idx_arr length is even, we can flip all of them eventually.

If there is no cost considered, we can just flip them in pair:
```
[0, 2]
[4, 6]
[7, 10]
```

when there is cost, we want to flip the adjacent indexes `[6, 7]` because the cost is smaller. That leaves 4 and 10 unpaired so we flip them together `[4, 10]`
now we decrease the cost by (x + x) - (x + 1) = x - 1

Can we decrease it more?

Well that depends on `x`. Intuitively, if x is quite small, say `x = 1` why bothering picking adjacent pairs when it cost the same even when flipping two bits that are extremely far from each other?

If x is ridiculously large, how can we flip index 0 with minimum cost? we can do these in pairs:
```
flip index: [0, 1]
flip index: [1, 2]
```

After these, both index 0 and 2 will be flipped, while index 1 remains the same as before. Let's call this kind of flip "the transmitted flip" and the other kind of flip (operation 1) "the instant flip".

So for a given pair `[i, j]`, the cost to do the transmitted flip is determined by the distance between two bits, `distance = idx_arr[j] - idx_arr[i]` . 

Now we know the strategy when flipping a pair `[i, j]`:
- if x > distance, the transmitted flip is preferred
- else: the instance flip is preferred

At this point, the problem can be translated to a different one:
We have an array of balls `index_arr`. We can paint two of them at once. The minimum cost of painting balls at i and j together is given by `getCost(i, j)` which is defined below:
```python
def getCost(i, j):
    return min(x, index_arr[j] - index_arr[i])
```

We want to paint all balls with the minimum cost.

let `dp[i][j]` indicate the minimum cost paint all balls between the position i and j (inclusive).

our goal is to get `dp[0][len(index_arr)-1]`

how to do the inference of `dp[i][j]`?

Say we are painting these balls `i, .., j`
```
index:  i i+1        k-1  k        j-1 j
balls:  O  O   ...... O   O ......  O  O
```

Think it as if we are shrinking the target group of balls because we have the base case when i and j are adjacent. that is, we know everything about `dp[i][i+1]`

so we have three options:
option 1: pair i and j and take advantage of the knowledge of a smaller subset between `i+1` and `j-1`

option 2:pair j-1 with j and take advantage of the knowledge of a smaller subset between `i` and `j-2` (j-2 because we are pairing j-1 with j, so j-1 is occupied)

option3: pair j with some ball `k` in between so we are dividing the set into two parts: `i->k-1` and `k->j`  This requires a loop to iterate k between i and j. Note that we want to iterate with a step of 2 because we want to keep both sides with even number of balls.

Finally `dp[i][j]` will be the minimum of these three.

code like this:
```python
class Solution:
    def minOperations(self, s1: str, s2: str, x: int) -> int:
        index_arr = [i for i, a, b in zip(range(len(s1)), s1, s2) if s1[i] != s2[i]]
        
        if len(index_arr) % 2 != 0: return -1

        def getCost(i, j):
            if i >= j:
                print(f'error: i = {i}, j={j}')
            return min(x, index_arr[j] - index_arr[i])
        

        def solve(i, j):
            if i == j-1:
                return getCost(i, j)
            
            # the worst case cost: pair them sequentially and keep using the instant flipping method
            minCost = int((j-i+1)/2) * x
            
            # choice 1: pair i and j
            if i+1 < j-1:
                minCost = min(minCost, getCost(i, j) + solve(i+1, j-1))
            
            # choice 2: pair j-1 and j
            if j - 2 >= 1:
                minCost = min(minCost, getCost(j-1, j) + solve(i, j-2))
            
            # choice 3: pair j with something between i and j
            for k in range(i+2, j-2, 2):
                minCost = min(minCost, solve(i, k-1) + solve(k,j))
            
            return minCost

        return solve(0, len(index_arr)-1)
```

